## Absences and Disruptions

I will distinguish between excused and unexcused absences. To grant an excused absence, I expect formal notification (email or voice mail message) as soon as practicable. In the case of family matters or serious illness, please send me a brief message as soon as practical. For scheduled university activities, contact me <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">before</span> the expected absence. So that I can arrange make-up exams or quizzes, please provide a one-week notice prior to the absence. I respect your privacy. You need not provide documentation in forms of doctor's excuse, death certificate, etc. An email message in the following form qualifies an absence as excused: “I need to attend to a health matter,” or “I had to attend to a family matter.” Please also notify me when you expect to return to class. I expect you to contact me at the earliest convenient time: do not wait until day of your return to class.

You are permitted to miss the equivalent of up to 2 class sessions on non-exam days with no formal penalty to your participation grade for the absences, though you cannot make up in-class grades or activities. For no more than 2 absences, your “in-class” portion of your participation grade will range from A to B+. For 3 or 4 absences, the in-class portion of your participation grade will be calculated at B to C+. For 5 or 6 absences, C to D-. For 7 or more, a “0."

**Extended Absences:** If you suffer an extended health matter or family crisis---you miss more than a week---you can earn full credit for a make-up. One set of extended absence dates (up to two weeks) for a serious matter can be worked around during the first 10 weeks of the semester. During late-semester, extended absences for a qualifying reason (death in family, illness) may qualify you to seek an incomplete. If I do not receive reasonably regular communication about a matter that causes you to be absent from class (at least every two weeks), I will assume that you intend either to withdraw or to face grade consequence for excessive absences.  Because of past experience with students who request extraordinary assistance from professor in their effort to catch up after missing several classes, I will only provide catch-up assistance after you have returned to class, have completed at least one missed assignment satisfactorily, and have made an office visit. Serious health or family catastrophes (more than 2 weeks) may qualify you to have a semester expunged from your record. Such matters or coordinated by your academic advisor or the student ombuds office, which will contact your professors. 

Keep disruptions to a minimum. Before class begins, silence or turn off electronic devices (pager, phone, etc.). Conversations unrelated to class should be held outside of class, and minimize communication (talk, or text) that distracts you or others from class. Arrive in class on time, and do not leave early. If you arrive more than ten minutes late or leave before class is dismissed, expect to be counted absent. To consult with the instructor, send an email, drop by during office hours, or schedule an appointment.

## Maintaining Communication

Formal policies on absences are not a substitute for maintaining communication: a students choice to drop communication is more disruptive than class absences. If you communicate, I can plan for your return to class. Regardless of whether absences are excused or unexcused, you are responsible for checking class web site and (for group projects) classmates to identify what you missed. It is more important to visit during office hours or to contact me by email to confirm what you missed. Office visits during “by appointment" hours (which means I have not said I will be in the office) should always be scheduled. If you schedule a by-appointment office visit outside of my usual hours and miss the scheduled appointment, I will count it as an absence.

In the case of an extended series of absences or an unexplained absence on a major paper or project or exam date, you are required to initiate a formal contact with the professor (email, office visit) to reinstate yourself in the class. Any of the following three events demand that you contact me: missing more than two classes in a row, missing an exam, or missing a paper due date and the following class. If you have not formally dropped and wish to continue in course, an email of explanation and an office visit are required within two days after returning to class. If during early semester you miss more than three classes in a row or if you miss class at a major due date (paper, exam) with no contact, I will file an “early alert" on the campus notification system. If you miss multiple classes or major due date late in the semester (weeks 10–15), I will contact you once via email. If you do not respond promptly (within 48 hours), I will assume that you intend to drop.  
