## Papers

Papers must *always* be submitted in print and electronic form. To earn full credit, follow all conventions of academic prose and format. In general I assume the following matters are understood as expectations for academic papers, but you should review and note for yourself anything that departs from your previous practices on papers.

  -  Papers must have appropriate format for titles (centered, no extra space), first-page headings (your name, date, my name, name of class and assignment), page numbers, appropriate font (11-pt. Times Roman or similar), 1-inch margins, and  line spacing. For a sample MLA Style paper, see a handbook or the  Purdue OWL site. I will also accept papers in Chicago or APA style, but I prefer the MLA-style first-page header rather than a cover sheet. Papers with comically exaggerated font size, line space, or margins to lengthen or shorten will be returned without credit. 

  -  A paper in standard format---when one allows for difference  between one or two extended block quotations and all full-length prose lines---has about 400 to 425 words per page. Because of heading matter, the first page will have fewer words, about 350 to 375 words: a 4-page paper has 1,550 to 1,650 words, and a 6-page paper has 2,350 to 2,500 words. Generally, based on word count math (5 characters is a “word”), a flexible cushion is built into most assignment: “4 to 5” pages may be read as “1,550 to 2,075” words. To qualify for full credit, an “A,” your paper should not depart from these norms by more than 10 percent.

  -  Guidelines on length may seem arbitrary, but length requirements are an inescapable fact about most published writing. The time that you spend revising to ensure that your paper falls into appropriate length, if you exercise good planning and self-discipline so as to demand productive work from yourself, is how you appeal to a designated audience. In college papers, some tell-tale signs of excessive attention to formatting (instead of revision) include the following: fewer than 23 or more than 25 lines on a full page; a 0.75- or 1.25-in. page margin; a font at a peculiar size like 10.3- or 11.8-pt. or a sans-serif face. Block quotes seem especially to invite creative formatting, so place no extra padding beyond proper block-quote indent of 1 in., do not indent right margin, have a minimum of 3 lines and do not use 8-plus line quotes, and do not use single spacing or extra line before or after block quotes. I worked as a university press typesetter, typically receive well over 1,000 manuscript pages per semester, have access to electronic submissions, and generally have a ruler on my desk with which to measure margins, so don't spend an hour on formatting cleverness to sneak something by.
  
  -  Formal papers are listed on syllabus and posted on Blackboard or course web site. All formal assignments must be submitted both as **print copies** and as **electronic copies** on Blackboard.  Formal papers submitted electronically via other means (such as email) will not be accepted as on time nor will they be accepted for credit. Submissions in non-designated proprietary formats (including Apple Pages) will not be accepted for credit. You may request permission to submit papers in alternate electronic format: if I have or can locate non-proprietary free software to read the document, I will accept them, provided you have requested and received approval before submission. Corrupt file formats (invalid extensions, etc.) shall be construed as missed assignments. 

  -  Use MLA parenthetical references for quotations and for paraphrases. At end of paper, include works cited list. I do not require a separate page for works cited list. If you can save a page, you may print part of works cited list on bottom of last text page (I accept that. Some professors may not). If the author of a quoted or paraphrased passage is unambiguous (i.e., mentioned in sentence, same as previous, primary work under discussion), omit author's name in parenthetical notation. 

  -  The proposal draft is required. A final draft will only be accepted for credit if the proposal draft has been completed.

  -  You may submit one paper or proposal up to one week late. The late paper submissions at any stage (proposal or final) will incur a permanent deduction of one letter grade on the overall paper. For a second late submission, I will assign a grade of “0.”

  -  **1st and 3rd Person** The judicious use of the first-person pronoun “I” is acceptable. You can avoid its use in formal writing as 3rd-person writing carries with it the assumption that the writer holds a critical view or offers an observation. Brief 1st-person impressions are permissible in formal writing in my academic disciplines (literary and cultural studies), but other professional disciplines, such as sciences, vary on attitude toward 1st-person remarks.  On matter of 3rd-person critical voice, its use is not an excuse to bury your source. Statements about text and its cultural contexts or history of critical reading should be attributed to external sources, even if the source is something the professor said in class, is included in anthology introduction, or is posted on Wikipedia. In other words, the use of 3rd-person as your well-earned voice of critical authority (because you have done research) does not relieve responsibility to note sources for facts. 

  -  You are permitted to revise Paper 1 to improve the grade. I welcome brief email notes with questions and anything from notes to full drafts during office hours. I will not pre-grade multi-page drafts by email.  I will answer short email queries promptly, but I can offer only one or two comments by email on drafts up to 2 pages. If you wish for extended comments at a full-draft stage, an office-hour visit is required. I am only willing to offer an approximate grade if you bring a complete draft to office hours 24 hours before the assignment is due. The check-up draft (when requested) is not “graded for content” nor does missing it cause a grade deduction. It is a participation grade to ensure that you continue to make progress on a longer paper.
  
