## Course Material Copyright

The university counsel (attorney's office) has notified professors that students are selling course materials (presentations, handouts, notes, exams, etc.) to an Internet company, which re-sells those materials to subscribers. Selling course materials violates a professor's copyright: the company is re-selling stolen intellectual property. Course materials that I create and display or distribute to students (unless they are owned by someone else and distributed under fair use guidelines) are my intellectual property. Likewise, were I to sell your work on a term paper web site, I would be violating your copyright.

However, my course materials build on the work of other scholars. Therefore, I claim what is known as an Attribution-NonCommercial License (CC By-NC). See <[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/)> for details. In sum, you have permission to remix, tweak, or build upon my work (for example, as a school lesson plan), but you must also release your new remixed work (if it is substantially similar content) in noncommercial form. If you create a derivative work (that is, you cite me  when creating something new, but yours is a substantially different work), you do have permission to license your own work on a commercial basis.

Please note that my course material copyright differs from standard syllabus boilerplate that the university counsel recommends. Unless another professor offers materials under a Creative Commons license, the usual copyright rules apply for material from that professor.
